---
slug: auto-retro-funding
title: "Auto Retro Funding - continuous, simple, automatic"
authors: [jabolol]
tags: [open source, retroactive public goods funding, hackathon]
image: ./Oso-X-Polygon.png
---

# Auto Retro Funding: Continuous, Simple, Automatic

The open-source ecosystem is a vibrant and vital space, fostering innovation and
collaboration across industries. However, it faces a persistent challenge:
funding. Despite their critical importance, many impactful projects struggle to
secure sustainable support, often relying on ad hoc donations or grants that
fail to scale with their influence.

This challenge inspired us to create
[**AutoRF**](https://ethglobal.com/showcase/autoretrofunding-bxy5k) during
[ETHGlobal San Francisco 2024](http://ethglobal.com/events/sanfrancisco2024), a
system designed to make retroactive funding simple, scalable, and transparent.

<!-- truncate -->

## The Challenge: Sustaining Public Goods

Public goods, like open-source projects, often suffer from the
[free-rider problem](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/free-rider/). While
their benefits are shared widely, the financial burden of sustaining them often
falls on too few contributors. Traditional funding models, whether upfront
grants or donations, tend to leave gaps. Even the most impactful projects can go
underfunded, while others gain visibility-driven support over merit.

Retroactive funding provides a solution by rewarding contributions based on
measurable past impact. However, current retro funding processes remain complex,
time-intensive, and mostly manual.

For example, [**Optimism's Retro Funding**](https://retrofunding.optimism.io)
rounds require extensive deliberation by voters, consuming hundreds of hours to
allocate funds fairly. These challenges limit scalability and discourage broader
adoption.

## Introducing AutoRF

AutoRF makes retroactive funding continuous, automatic, and accessible. By
combining on-chain automation with human-in-the-loop oversight, AutoRF provides
funders with tools to define impact metrics, schedule distributions, and scale
funding pools effortlessly.

### How AutoRF Works

AutoRF simplifies retroactive funding with a mix of automation and on-chain
efficiency. Funders create funding pools, define how to measure contributions
using impact metrics, and set schedules for distributing rewards. Contributors
join these pools, and their work is tracked through data like commit history and
repository activity.

The system automatically indexes new contribution data, recalculates impact
scores, and updates funding weights on-chain using smart contracts. This ensures
rewards are distributed fairly and transparently. By automating these processes,
AutoRF makes it easy to support impactful projects with minimal manual effort.

![Split Overview](./Split-overview.png)

### The Grinder's Fund x Polygon

At ETHGlobal SF 2024, we showcased AutoRF with a live prototype: **The Grinder's
Fund**, a retroactive funding pool rewarding the hardest-working teams at the
ETHGlobal hackathon. Funded by [**Polygon**](https://polygon.technology) and
[**Dabl Club**](https://www.dabl.club), The Grinder's Fund distributed **$1,000
USD** across elegible participants. The final distribution can be found at the
[Splits website](https://app.splits.org/accounts/0xd90561e9c1d4B58b0aFfB39B5eb39494C4D8A9C6/?chainId=137).

The fund analyzed GitHub activity to reward contributors based on metrics like
commit frequency timing, and size. By Sunday morning, over **60 projects** had
signed up, with an average of 4 people per team, totaling around **300
participants**. This demonstrated AutoRF's ability to scale retroactive funding
in real-world scenarios. More insights from the hackathon can be found
[here](https://github.com/opensource-observer/ethglobal-sf-2024/blob/main/insights/ethglobal-sf-2024.ipynb).

![The Grinder's Fund Distribution](./AutoRF-final-funding.png)

## Why It Matters

AutoRF is not just a hackathon project; it is a blueprint for sustaining public
goods at scale.

By lowering operational overhead and providing a transparent, data-driven
funding mechanism, AutoRF democratizes access to retroactive funding for any
ecosystem. With its continuous distribution model, AutoRF empowers funders to
reward impactful contributions while providing contributors with consistent,
merit-based incentives.

## The Future of Retro Funding

AutoRF represents a shift in how we sustain public goods. Whether it is
open-source software, climate initiatives, or educational programs, retroactive
funding has the potential to support critical work while driving engagement and
innovation.

By scaling AutoRF, we envision a future where funding is continuous, simple, and
automatic. A future where public goods do not just survive but thrive.
